README.md, before:

# 🌍 AI Trip Planner

### 🚀 [Live Demo](https://ai-trip-planner-neeraj-five.vercel.app)

 
A smart, AI-powered travel assistant that generates personalized trip itineraries based on your preferences. Built with **React.js**, **Google Gemini AI**, and **Firebase**, this application offers a modern, responsive interface to plan your next adventure effortlessly.

![Project Banner](public/landing.png)
## ✨ Features

- **🚀 AI-Powered Itineraries:** Generates detailed day-by-day travel plans using Google Gemini 2.5 Flash.
- **🏨 Smart Recommendations:** Suggests hotels and hidden gems tailored to your budget and travel style.
- **📍 Interactive Maps:** Integrated Google Maps links for every location and hotel.
- **📸 Dynamic Imagery:** Fetches high-quality travel photos automatically using the Unsplash API.
- **🔐 Secure Authentication:** Seamless Google Sign-In powered by Firebase & Google OAuth.
- **🎨 Modern UI/UX:** Features a sleek "Glassmorphism" design, responsive layouts, and smooth animations using Tailwind CSS and Shadcn UI.
- **💾 Cloud Sync:** Saves your generated trips to Firebase Firestore so you can view them anytime.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React.js (Vite), Tailwind CSS
- **UI Library:** Shadcn UI, Radix UI, Lucide React
- **Backend / Database:** Firebase (Firestore)
- **AI Model:** Google Gemini API (`gemini-2.5-flash`)
- **Authentication:** Google OAuth 2.0
- **APIs:** Unsplash API (Images), Google Maps (Navigation)

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these steps to run the project locally.

### Prerequisites
Make sure you have **Node.js** installed on your machine.

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone [https://github.com/your-username/ai-trip-planner.git](https://github.com/your-username/ai-trip-planner.git)
   cd ai-trip-planner

```

2. **Install dependencies**
```bash
npm install

```


3. **Set up Environment Variables**
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add your API keys:
```env
VITE_GOOGLE_GEMINI_AI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key
VITE_GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_firebase_api_key
VITE_UNSPLASH_ACCESS_KEY=your_unsplash_access_key

```


4. **Run the development server**
```bash
npm run dev

```


5. **Open your browser**
Navigate to `http://localhost:5173` to see the app in action!

## 📂 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/         # Reusable UI components (Header, Buttons, Dialogs)
├── constants/          # Static data (Options, Prompts)
├── context/            # React Context for state management
├── service/            # API configurations (Firebase, Gemini, GlobalApi)
├── view-trip/          # Trip details page components (Hotels, Itinerary)
├── create-trip/        # Trip generation form
├── my-trips/           # User dashboard
└── main.jsx            # Entry point

```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements or new features, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

---

<p align="center">
Made with ❤️ by [Neeraj Wariya]
</p>

Commit message:

Enhance README with badges and project details
Added technology badges for React, Tailwind CSS, Firebase, and Gemini AI. Updated project description to include OpenStreetMap.

README.md, after:

# 🌍 AI Trip Planner


![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/firebase-ffca28?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase&logoColor=black)
![Gemini AI](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google%20Gemini%20AI-8E75B2?style=for-the-badge&logo=google&logoColor=white)


### 🚀 [Live Demo](https://ai-trip-planner-neeraj-five.vercel.app)

 
A smart, AI-powered travel assistant that generates personalized trip itineraries based on your preferences. Built with **React.js**, **Google Gemini AI**, and **Firebase**, this application offers a modern, responsive interface to plan your next adventure effortlessly.  Powered by **Google Gemini AI**, **OpenStreetMap**, and **Firebase**.

![Project Banner](public/landing.png)
## ✨ Features

- **🚀 AI-Powered Itineraries:** Generates detailed day-by-day travel plans using Google Gemini 2.5 Flash.
- **🏨 Smart Recommendations:** Suggests hotels and hidden gems tailored to your budget and travel style.
- **📍 Interactive Maps:** Integrated Google Maps links for every location and hotel.
- **📸 Dynamic Imagery:** Fetches high-quality travel photos automatically using the Unsplash API.
- **🔐 Secure Authentication:** Seamless Google Sign-In powered by Firebase & Google OAuth.
- **🎨 Modern UI/UX:** Features a sleek "Glassmorphism" design, responsive layouts, and smooth animations using Tailwind CSS and Shadcn UI.
- **💾 Cloud Sync:** Saves your generated trips to Firebase Firestore so you can view them anytime.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React.js (Vite), Tailwind CSS
- **UI Library:** Shadcn UI, Radix UI, Lucide React
- **Backend / Database:** Firebase (Firestore)
- **AI Model:** Google Gemini API (`gemini-2.5-flash`)
- **Authentication:** Google OAuth 2.0
- **APIs:** Unsplash API (Images), Google Maps (Navigation)

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these steps to run the project locally.

### Prerequisites
Make sure you have **Node.js** installed on your machine.

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone [https://github.com/your-username/ai-trip-planner.git](https://github.com/your-username/ai-trip-planner.git)
   cd ai-trip-planner

```

2. **Install dependencies**
```bash
npm install

```


3. **Set up Environment Variables**
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add your API keys:
```env
VITE_GOOGLE_GEMINI_AI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key
VITE_GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_firebase_api_key
VITE_UNSPLASH_ACCESS_KEY=your_unsplash_access_key

```


4. **Run the development server**
```bash
npm run dev

```


5. **Open your browser**
Navigate to `http://localhost:5173` to see the app in action!

## 📂 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/         # Reusable UI components (Header, Buttons, Dialogs)
├── constants/          # Static data (Options, Prompts)
├── context/            # React Context for state management
├── service/            # API configurations (Firebase, Gemini, GlobalApi)
├── view-trip/          # Trip details page components (Hotels, Itinerary)
├── create-trip/        # Trip generation form
├── my-trips/           # User dashboard
└── main.jsx            # Entry point

```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements or new features, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

---

<p align="center">
Made with ❤️ by [Neeraj Wariya]
</p>
